the death toll had been over 8,000 when
we were last able to get an accurate
death toll it's been several weeks now
so the figure is likely to be closer to
10,000 at this point and at the same
time period so about three months into
the Ukraine
war the UN had stated at the time that
the lives of children have been
devastated at a scale that is uh has not
been seen since World War II at the time
on average two children were being
killed per day
uh the average number of children being
killed per day in Gaza right now is well
over a hundred and and like I said over
8,000 likely close to 10,000 children
have been killed so far that excludes
the thousands who've been disabled over
10,000 according to the UN likely uh
with uh extremity uh amputations so
upper and lower limb amputations so
children mimed debilitated for Life over
20,000 children
orphaned and then you know 85% of the
gazen population is currently displaced
many families having been displaced uh
multiple times so 100% of children have
no access to Reliable Heating in the
winter there's uh no access to food like
there's no there's food insecurity
limited access to clean water and
obviously high risk of disease 100% of
children in Gaza have no access to
school and we know that at least of the
education facilities according to the
office of coordination of humanitarian
Affairs have been destroyed so far so
all children not being educated at the
moment Israel's military says its forces
have finished dismantling hamas's
military framework in Northern Gaza a
spokesman announced that thousands of
Hamas Fighters have been killed in the
north of the strip since October 7th
Israeli military says weapons and
documents belonging to the group have
been seized they say some Hamas members
still remain in the
area ham joins us now from occupied East
Jerusalem what else has the Israeli
military been saying about this
ham it's interesting the Israeli
military is saying they've completely
dismantled hamas's military capabilities
in Northern Gaza when we do know that
over the last several weeks they've said
repeatedly that they have quote full
operational control control there but
just earlier today Hamas releasing video
of several different clashes in
different neighborhoods in Northern Gaza
specifically the T neighborhood so
contradicting what the Israeli military
is saying but Israeli military
spokesperson Daniel hagat said that
there are five components to the
dismantling that has been done in
Northern Gaza the first is the
elimination of all the commanders of the
battalions that were there the second is
clearing the area of all the fighters
third Gathering intelligence from the
field and the fourth and fifth are
destroying any Rockets or rocket
launching sites and completely
dismantling and destroying any tunnels
or other underground infrastructure now
the Israeli military also says that
there is likely to still be some
sporadic rocket Fire coming from
northern Gaza even after they claim they
have dismantled those military
capabilities entirely but the army
spokesperson Daniel hagari has said that
the war is going to take time and is
going to go well into the year 2024 but
that the Israelis are now concentrating
the effort of quote deepening their
achievements into the central and
southern parts of Gaza where they
believe a lot of Hamas leaders and
Fighters still remain so interesting
that the Israelis are saying that they
have full operational control and they
have completely dismantled those
capabilities when they have been some
facts and statistics to prove that
otherwise live for us in occupy East
Jerusalem hamda thank you